[Docs] Well Lit Paths Doc (#1156)
llm-d/llm-d: docs/wip-docs-new/well-lit-paths/README.md

# Well-Lit Paths

A **well-lit path** is a documented, tested, and benchmarked deployment pattern for large scale LLM serving.

These paths are targeted at production serving that want to achieve SOTA performance while minimizing operational complexity. The well-lit paths help identify those key optimizations, understand their tradeoffs, and verify the gains against your own workload.

Each guide is hosted in [llm-d guides](https://github.com/llm-d/llm-d/tree/main/guides).

## Paths

* [**Intelligent Inference Scheduling**](./intelligent-inference-scheduling.md) -- vLLM-aware load-balancing enables smarter request routing that improves SLOs.

> * [**P/D Disaggregation**](./pd-disaggregation.md) -- llm-d composes vLLM and Gateway to enable P/D disaggregation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [**P/D Disaggregation**](./pd-disaggregation.md) -- llm-d composes vLLM and Inference Scheduler to enable P/D disaggregation.
```

Reviewer 2: adressed.

- [**Wide Expert Parallelism**](./wide-expert-parallelism.md) -- Deploy very large Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) models like DeepSeek-R1 and significantly reduce end-to-end latency and increase throughput by scaling up with Data Parallelism and Expert Parallelism over fast accelerator networks.
- [**Tiered Prefix Cache**](./tiered-prefix-cache.md) -- Increase prefix cache reuse, reduce TTFT, and increase throughput for long context or high concurrency workloads by adding tiered prefix cache (e.g., offloading to CPU memory) beyond accelerator memory. Tiered prefix cache can be combined with any of the paths above.
- [**Workload Autoscaling**](./workload-autoscaling.md) -- Scale model server deployments using inference-specific signals (queue depth, KV-cache utilization, running requests) instead of GPU utilization, with cost-optimized variant selection and scale-to-zero support.

> llm-d builds entirely on upstream components -- it does not fork vLLM, the Gateway API, or LeaderWorkerSets. Requirements are driven directly into upstream projects, ensuring access to community regression testing, new optimizations, and resilience against rapid architectural shifts.

Reviewer 2: I dont think this is needed

> ## Composability

Reviewer 2: I don't really think this is needed
